The Joe Rogan experience. Um,
there was another thing that was deceptive or at least it confused
people.
That's when they made them eat a bean burrito and they checked their blood.
Yeah. Cloudy blood that's. That was,
I was just sitting there shaking my head going, what in the are you doing?
This has nothing to do with health.
So again, not a peer reviewed experiment,
something that was or controlled study in any way,
just something that they did in the film. Um, so yeah,
th they fed the burritos, you know, with me, without me.
And they measured their blood afterwards. Big surprise.
If the people who ate meat,
which has more fat and more saturated fat had cloudier blood, well,
that's normal.
That's just naturally what you would expect from the process of eating feed.
You will temporarily have more fat in your blood has nothing to do.
With health. So what is the big question might actually go.
Better? Why might be better for you? And so then I went and I thought, okay,
well,
what does the peer reviewed research show about animal protein and endothelial
function?
Cause their claim was that eating the animal protein reduces your endothelial
functioning and it increases in inflammation. So, um,
this, I, there, there was one, um,
study that a lot of the,
there are a couple of studies that show a low carb diet,
impairs endothelial function, but they tend to be short term, like four weeks.
I, I looked for longer-term studies.
There was a 2009 study that followed subjects for 12 weeks.
And they found the low carb diet actually improved endothelial function,
whereas a low fat diet decreased it.
And then there was a 2007 study that followed subjects for a year.
And there was no change in endothelial function on a low carb diet.
We actually there's strong evidence that high blood sugar and insulin resistance
impair endothelial function. So, you know,
a low carb diet that would lower your blood sugar and improve insulin resistance
would be expected to improve it from that perspective. So again,
when you look at the actual science, the actual peer reviewed research,
you don't see that relationship that they're talking.
They didn't even, I mean, when they're showing it to you,
it's just scare tactics. They're not, they're not talking about what that means.
Yeah. People see it and they're like, oh my God, the blood is cloud.
Even the football players who were in the experiment, they were, they were like,
oh wow, I'm not going to eat my KFC or Popeye's anymore. And I'm like, well,
you probably shouldn't, but it's not for that reason. Right. You know.
Saturated fat is the demon, right. That keeps getting addressed.
Explain why saturated fat is not only healthy,
but probably necessary.
Well, I don't know that it's necessary, but I would, I would say that, you know,
well.
I should say cholesterol is necessary. Well.
Cholesterol is necessary. Um,
and our body makes it to actually most of the cholesterol that we have in our
body, we manufacturer, uh,
it doesn't come from the diet about 30% comes from the diet about 70.
We make it,
the exact ratio varies depending on the person. And you know,
some people are hyper responders of dietary cholesterol.
So they'll absorb more from food, but it's, you know,
it plays a vital role in the body.
There's a genetic disease called Smith Lemley opiates syndrome,
which results in severe cholesterol deficiency. And it's, it's fatal.
So you die with not enough cholesterol. I'm not.
However, one of these people on the other end of the spectrum that thinks, Hey,
if your cholesterol is four 50, don't worry. No problem. There's, you know,
like, you know, just write it off.
I think the truth is somewhere in the middle and it's biological.
Variable.
It's variable. Yeah. And you can get, I, and I see this, I, you know,
I've been working with patients for over 10 years.
I test every single person that comes through the door with a full lipid panel.
And I have people who are doing keto super low carb diets who have
totally optimal normal cholesterol.
And then I have people who go from eating, you know, a low,
moderate, fat diet to like a high fat keto or low carb diet.
And their LDL P goes up to 25 or a hundred or 3000.
And their LDL cholesterol goes up to 300.
So yeah. I mean, what I can S I think what, stepping back a little bit,
as we talked about this with Juul, but cholesterol for decades was,
is it was the boogeyman, you know,
you sh it was like that led to like egg white omelets and boneless,
skinless chicken breast, and, you know,
bagels with nothing on them when I was growing up.
And now even the margarine margarine. Oh my God.
I can't believe it's not butter.
I thought it was better than butter.
Where it's like, rats won't even eat if you leave it out in the garage. Yeah.
Um, yeah. So batteries.
They won't eat margarine.
That's what I've heard. I've never done this experiment experiment, do it.
Otherwise.
We're pushing.
Out this information as well, propaganda. Um, so yeah, you know,
the us quietly actually removed the limitation of dietary
cholesterol. They used to limit it to 300 milligrams. Um,
now that they don't have that anymore,
because the evidence didn't justify having that in the dietary guidelines,
we were the last industrialized country to do that.
Every other company country had done that years ago. Um, but because,
you know, the, uh, how entrenched that was in our country. And I think,
you know, th they don't want to lose credibility. It's like,
they've been saying not to do something for so long then to turn around and say,
actually, right, there's no evidence to support that. It's, it's,
it's you lose face.
And when people talk about saturated fat,
and they talk about it as being only a, a meat or animal, uh,
diet issue, um,
one thing that I always like to bring up is avocados.
Yeah.
There's a certain amount of unsaturated fat and saturated fat.
Every food has all three fats in some proportion.
So you have saturated monounsaturated and polyunsaturated and dairy
products are actually the only category of foods that consistently have more
saturated fat than any other type of fat pork. For example,
often has more monounsaturated fat than saturated, and even sometimes, yeah,
lean beef.
And what's really interesting about that is that studies consistently
show that full fat dairy,
which would be like the highest saturated fat class of foods is C
is associated with reduced risk of heart disease, reduce risk of diabetes,
reduced weight, and all kinds of other improvements.
Dairy is full of raw dairy, like raw milk.
They don't different, you know,
they're not differentiating like that in the study, just any.
At dairy. Why do you think so many people are lactose intolerant then?
Cause it seems that that's an issue.
And I think I seem to have it a little bit in my nine-year-old daughter
definitely has.
Well, so it wasn't until 11 before 11,000 years,
12,000 years ago, we didn't raise animals for dairy.
So there was no need that we only had to digest lactose while we were
breastfeeding. So unlike in a hunter gatherer culture,
as soon as you stopped breastfeeding,
you no longer had the need to digest lactose. And so we're,
our bodies are efficient. We stopped producing lactase,
which is the enzyme to break down lactose and for the rest of our adult life.
But then about 12,000 years ago, we S we started, you know,
somebody figured out, Hey,
let's drink some milk from that ruminate animal over there.
And milk dairy products, help people avoid starvation.
And there was a good source of hydration and nutrients.
And so that mutation started to spread. And now it's about one third of,
of the world has lactase persistence, which means they can digest, um,
lactose all the way into adulthood. And two-thirds don't,
and it depends a lot on your ancestry. So.
So two thirds people are lactose intolerant. Wow. That's.
Interesting.
So the people who tend to be lactose tolerant or people of European,
particularly Northern European descent, like lactase, lactose tolerance,
or lactase persistence approaches like 97% in Scandinavia. So Denmark,
Norway, Sweden, they can almost all digest milk and then east Africans.
So you have like the Messiah, you know,
people who've been raising cattle for a long time, tend to have those, um,
that capability. Whereas like in Asia,
other parts of Africa and other parts of the world, not as much.
The difference, if any,
does it make when it's not homogenized and pasteurized in terms of your
digestion, because for me, I don't have a problem with raw milk.
Milk seems to be. Yeah.
Yeah. I think there is a difference. I mean,
it contains enzymes in it that help you break down the lack, the lactose. Um,
so that make a difference. But I mean, just,
I would love to see research that further differentiates the health benefits of
dairy, according to whether it's organic or whether it's modularized or not,
and all that, but even just talking about dairy as a whole category,
when you had Dr. Walter Willett in there saying there's evidence of high con
high consumption of proteins from dairy was related to higher risk of prostate
cancer, the chain of cancer causation seems pretty clear,
but if you bring up a slide 44, Jamie, this,
there was a 2019 study largest review of dairy ever been done
before. It was 153 meta analysis that they reviewed.
So not just individual studies,
they reviewed 153 studies that were also reviewing other studies.
And 84% of the meta-analyses on dairy showed either no
association or an inverse association between Darien cancer.
Meaning when it's inverse,
it means people who ate more dairy had lower rates of cancer. Whoa.
So I just, it's frustrating, you know, to,
to see someone make a claim like that.
And then you go and you look at the full totality of the research and you see a,
uh, just exhaustive study like this with 153 minute analyses
and 84% are showing no relationship or a beneficial
effect of dairy on cancer. Why wasn't that mentioned in the film? Well,
it's consistent.
With the way the message is being distributed through the entire film. It's,
it's a propaganda movie. I mean, that's essentially what it is.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's like reefer madness.
For meat. I mean, it really is.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's kind of crazy.